Hi, I'm jeavá hartmann and I work at
university of são paulo in the group d
for magnetism together with the teacher
Ricardo you met in module 1
during the four years my PhD I
I collected analyzed about 600 fragments
of brick churches and old houses of the
bahia sao paulo and rio de janeiro
holy spirit
these bricks searched the field
magnetic of Brazil in the past
in the same way as the rocks the bricks
when they are trained they acquire a
called land
remnants can see more details in the
handbook good as you already know the field
magnetic field is all the time
varying so that the fragments of
constructions of different ages
record field values ​​as well
different
my goal in this work was to meet
as the variable magnetic field in the
Brazil in the last 500 years
so I prepared these samples in the
format of cubes with one centimeter of
side
then I put the samples in the oven
magnetic pole that after successive
heating was possible.
rescue intensity orientation
magnetic field
at a time when the brick clay
It was burned for the first time after
heat and cool in the oven and medium
magnetometer samples from each location
that I visited I find out about the
variation in field strength
magnetic field in each of the
studied
the results of my work showed
that the magnetic field in Brazil is
far from presenting a behavior
ideal that can be compared to the field
magnetic field of a clay brother a field
dust in both the northeast and the
southeastern Brazil
the magnetic field is complex and presents
strong influences and components not
polar these cases the compass needle
presents a strong flexion with
to the north, which can reach more than
of 20 degrees and in Europe for example the
magnetic field is different from the field
Brazil with predominance of the field
take off
if the earth were a brother almost
the effect and the reflections regarding the
north does not receive 15 degrees
therefore the rocks and artifacts can
provide important information about the
magnetic field of the past
that's why it's so important to study
about the magnetism of rocks